Introduce ADR for event-sourced persistence (#940)
input-output-hk/hydra: docs/adr/2023-06-19-024-persistence.md

* Furthermore, the way we currently handle changes to the `HeadState` in the hydra-node, while conceptually being an `Effect` is handled differently from other `Effect`s: The state is updated transactionally through a dedicated `modifyHeadState` function in the core loop of processing events, and _then_ effects are processed.

## Decision

1. Replace the `NewState` outcome with a `StateEffect` which can be part of the `Outcome` of `HeadLogic`'s `update` function, representing the _change_ to be applied to the current state.
2. Add a dedicated [handle](/adr/4) to manage `StateEffect`, applying them on and providing current `HeadState`
3. Persist `StateEffect`s in an append-only log
4. Upon node startup, reread `StateEffect` log and reapply those to reset the `HeadState`
3. _(Optional)_: Make `StateEffect` _invertible_

The following sequence diagram illustrates new event handling in the `HeadLogic`:

> ![](./persistence.png)

Reviewer: Could: use mermaid as it is supported for inline rendering in Github  with ```mermaid

i.e.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  eq ->> Node : nextEvent
  Node ->> db : getState
  db -->> Node : state: HeadState
  Node ->> HeadLogic: update(state)
  HeadLogic -->> Node : [st:StateEffect, ot:OtherEffect]
  Node ->> db: handle(st)
  db ->> db: persist(st)
  db -->> Node: ok
  Node ->> Other : handle(ot)
```

## Consequences

-  :racehorse: The main expected consequence of this change is an increase of the overall performance of Hydra Head network
-  While other _Effect handlers_ might be asynchronous, `StateEffect` handle _must_ be synchronous to ensure consistency and durability of state changes

> - An longer term consequence is the possibilities this change introduces w.r.t `ServerOutput` handling and client's access to a head's state:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An longer term consequence is the possibilities this change introduces with respect to `ServerOutput` handling and client's access to a head's state:
```
